ltop(1)                               lmt                              ltop(1)

NAME
       ltop - display live information about a Lustre file system

SYNOPSIS
       ltop [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       ltop displays information about a live Lustre file system monitored by LMT.

OPTIONS
       ltop accepts the following command line options:

       -f,--filesystem FSNAME
              Monitor the file system named FSNAME.  You may monitor only one file system per ltop session.  The default is to monitor the first file system found.

       -t,--sample-period SECS
              Change the display refresh period from the default of two seconds.

       -r,--record FILE
              Log raw data from the session to FILE, so it can be played back with -p.

       -p,--play FILE
              Play back raw data from FILE recorded with -r or with the interactive R command.

MDT FIELD DESCRIPTIONS
       MDT    The mdt index, in hex.  In the compressed view (c below), the number of MDT’s on the MDS is displayed in parenthesis.

       MDS    The MDS hostname.

       Open   The number of file opens per second.

       Close  The number of file closes per second.

       Getattr
              The number of file or directory getattrs per second.

       Setattr
              The number of file or directory setattrs per second.

       Unlink The number of file unlinks per second.

       Mkdir  The number of mkdirs per second.

       Rmdir  The number of rmdirs per second.

       Rename The number of files or directories renamed per second.

OST FIELD DESCRIPTIONS
       OST    The ost index, in hex.  In the compressed view (c below), the number of OST’s on the OSS is displayed in parenthesis.

	   S      OSC  status.   The MDS’s view of the OST is shown here.  The OSC state is abbreviated as follows:  C closed, N new, D disconn, c connecting, r replay, l replay_locks, w replay_wait, R recover, F full, E evicted.  The normal state
              is F.

       OSS    The OSS hostname.

       Exp    Export count.  There will be one export for each client mounting the file system plus one for the MDS and one for the OST itself.

       CR     The number of (re-)connects per second.

       rMB/s  Read megabytes per second.

       wMB/s  Write megabytes per second.

       IOPS   Bulk RPC’s per second (read and write combined).  In an ideal world, all bulk I/O would be 1MB, i.e. equal to the sum of rMB/s and wMB/s.

       LOCKS  The number of locks on OST resources currently granted.

       LGR    The lock grant rate.

       LCR    The lock cancellation rate.

       %spc   The percentage of OST storage space in use.

COMMON FIELD DESCRIPTIONS
       %cpu   The percentage of cpu in use on the server.

       %mem   The percentage of memory in use on the server.

INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
       ltop responds to the following single character commands interactively:

       q      Terminate the ltop program.

       PageDown
              Page down through target information if it won’t fit on screen.

       PageUp Page up through target information if it won’t fit on screen.

       c      Toggle compressed target view.  The default mode is to display one line per target.  In compressed mode, one line per server is displayed.  Numerical data is summed in the server view except for the export count where the minimum
              export count of any target is displayed.  Also if any of the target’s is in recovery, recovery information for that target will be shown in the server view.

       >      Sort MDT/OST window by the next field to the right, wrapping around at the end.  Initially, entries are sorted by the leftmost field, OST/MDT index.

       <      Sort MDT/OST window by the next field to the left, wrapping around at the end.  Initially, entries are sorted by the leftmost field, OST/MDT index.
	   
	   t      Sort by target index, ascending order.

       s      Sort by server name, ascending order.

       x      Sort by export count, ascending order.

       C      Sort by (re-)connect rate, descending order (OST).

       r      Sort by read bandwidth, descending order (OST).

       w      Sort by write bandwidth, descending order (OST).

       i      Sort by IOPS, descending order (OST).

       l      Sort by lock count, descending order (OST).

       g      Sort by lock grant rate, descending order (OST).

       L      Sort by lock cancellation rate, descending order (OST).

       o      Sort by file open rate, descending order (MDT).

       C      Sort by file close rate, descending order (MDT).

       g      Sort by getattr rate, descending order (MDT).

       S      Sort by setattr rate, descending order (MDT).

       U      Sort by file unlink rate, descending order (MDT).

       M      Sort by mkdir rate, descending order (MDT).

       r      Sort by rmdir rate, descending order (MDT).

       R      Sort by rename rate, descending order (MDT).

       u      Sort by percent cpu utilization, descending order.

       m      Sort by percent memory utilization, descending order.

       S      Sort by percent disk space utilization, descending order (OST).

       DOWN   Move cursor down.

       UP     Move cursor up.

       SPACE  Tag/untag OST/OSS under cursor.  Tagged OST/OSS’s are underlined.

       DEL    Park cursor and clear all tags.
	   
	   R      Toggle record mode on/off.  Unless a file name was specified with the -r command line option, a file named ltop.log will be used.

       p      Pause data collection/playback.

       RIGHT  Fast forward playback by one sample period.

       LEFT   Rewind playback by one sample period.

       TAB    Fast forward playback by one minute.

       BACKSPACE
              Rewind playback by one minute.

VI KEY BINDINGS
       For convenience to vi users, the following aliases are defined

       j      Alias for DOWN

       k      Alias for UP

       Control-U
              Alias for PageUp

       Control-D
              Alias for PageDown

SEE ALSO
       lustre(7), lmt.conf(5)

lmt-3.2.2                         2016-04-01                           ltop(1)

